---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 5.1 - The Ziggurat
up:
  - 5.1 - The Ziggurat
prev:
  - 5.1.2 - Offertory Chamber
next:
  - 5.1.4 - Hall of Statues
sibling:
  - 5.1.4 - Hall of Statues
RWtopicId: Topic_1740
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[5.1 - The Ziggurat]] | [[5.1.2 - Offertory Chamber]] | [[5.1.4 - Hall of Statues]] | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>5.1.3 - Animal Sacrifice Chamber</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Encounter

**Setting**: Indoors

**Encounter Type**: Exploration

Animal sacrifices were performed in this room—and one of the creatures that performed the sacrifices still resides here.

The stairs lead to another chamber, this one decorated with carved animal heads filling the walls. Many of the animal heads have emeralds for eyes, causing them to flicker green in the light. A stone table occupies the center of the chamber. Behind it stands two large creatures with the head and horns of a bull. Their flesh is rotting away, and parts of their skeleton show through. One lifts its greataxe and steps toward you.

## Challenge

Minotaur Zombie Tactics: It’s a zombie, so the minotaur’s tactics are simple. It charges in the first round if it can, using its greataxe because it doesn’t have a living minotaur’s powerful charge ability. Then it just attacks the nearest creature with its greataxe every round until all its foes are slain or the zombie itself is destroyed. It won’t leave the room, even to chase fleeing opponents.

## Development

Beyond this room, the stairs leading deeper into the ziggurat split, with one staircase leading upward to the Chamber of Circles and Chamber of Ascension, and the other leading downward to the Hall of Statues, the Chamber of Prayer, and the Crypt.

## Rewards

The emeralds in the wall carvings are large, but poorly cut and full of flaws (DC 15 Intelligence Check to notice this). They’re worth 5 gp each. One character can gather 1,000 gp worth of emeralds if he or she spends two hours prying them out of the carvings; if more than one PC participates, the time is reduced proportionately (so four PCs could do this work in 30 minutes).
