---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 5.1 - The Ziggurat
up:
  - 5.1 - The Ziggurat
next:
  - 5.1.2 - Offertory Chamber
sibling:
  - 5.1.2 - Offertory Chamber
RWtopicId: Topic_1624
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[5.1 - The Ziggurat]] | --- | [[5.1.2 - Offertory Chamber]] | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>5.1.1 - Antechamber</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Encounter

**Setting**: Outdoors

**Encounter Type**: Combat

The PCs must cross the water and climb the stairs into the ziggurat’s antechamber. This ancient temple may be abandoned, but it isn’t uninhabited. The antechamber, for example, serves as the lair of a cloaker.

**Light**: None

**Sound**: Once the cloaker reacts to the PCs, they automatically hear eerie moans without needing to make Perception checks.

**Reaction**: If the PCs have a light source or make a sound, the cloaker begins an unnerving moan attack. The cloaker has a Perception of +13.

## Setup

Lucan steps into the temple and assumes gaseous form so he can circumnavigate the place without being molested by its inhabitants. The PCs aren’t as fortunate. The cloaker in the antechamber uses its unnerving moan attack as soon as it notices the PCs.

 

When the PCs enter the temple, read:

The polished gray marble walls in this chamber feature wavy patterns reminiscent of the ocean. Two rows of columns stretch toward a doorway on the far side of the chamber, and each column has 8-inchdiameter discs raised along its surface, making the columns look like massive octopus tentacles.

## Challenge

Cloaker Tactics: Ideally, the cloaker uses its unnerving moan for 6 consecutive rounds, hoping to put PCs in a trance. If the PCs enter too quickly, the cloaker circles near the ceiling and uses its Phantasms ability. Then it uses its moan. Then it tries to engulf a PC who isn’t nauseated or fleeing. 

 

The cloaker flees—out of the ziggurat if possible—if reduced to 15 hit points or less. It uses the antechamber as a lair and usually hunts elsewhere.

## Obstacles

Have the PCs make a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw as soon as they step into the room and hear to moan. Describe how maddening and distracting the moan is, and tell the PCs that they feel like they won’t be able to function if the sound continues much longer. 

 

Have the PCs make Perception checks immediately; the [[Cloaker|cloaker]] is attached to one of the columns near the center of the room. The [[Cloaker|cloaker]]’s [[3 - Stealth|Stealth]] modifier is +5. If none of the PCs spot the [[Cloaker|cloaker]] and it knows where they are, the monster gets to act in the [[2. - Surprise|surprise]] round when the PCs step into the chamber.
