---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 5.1 - The Ziggurat
up:
  - 5.1 - The Ziggurat
prev:
  - 5.1.4 - Hall of Statues
next:
  - 5.1.6 - Crypt
sibling:
  - 5.1.6 - Crypt
RWtopicId: Topic_1742
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[5.1 - The Ziggurat]] | [[5.1.4 - Hall of Statues]] | [[5.1.6 - Crypt]] | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>5.1.5 - Chamber of Prayer</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Encounter

**Setting**: Indoors
*annotation:* Inside the Ziggurat

**Encounter Type**: Exploration

The stairs descend to the lowest level of the ziggurat, opening into a chamber that was originally intended for individual prayer. The frayed tapestries hanging in the room once acted as screens to give worshipers privacy. Now the chamber houses an otyugh that lives off fungus and whatever wanders into its lair.

**Light**: None

**Sound**: The PCs hear a loud drumming noise, the volume of which causes on Wisdom (Perception) check that involve listening.

**Reaction**: None

## Setup

Moss covers the walls of this chamber, some of it growing on tapestries hooked to the walls and ceiling. The moss is so thick that any designs on the tapestry are completely obscured. Murky water covers the floor of this room. The center of the opposite wall features a stone door with a crescent moon carved on its face. A dais on the side wall has a set of large kettle drums. A double-ended mallet floats above them, drumming of its own volition.

The otyugh uses its sensory stalk to peer around the edge of one of the tapestries. When the PCs reveal themselves, the creature immediately goes on the prowl for fresh meat.

## Challenge

Otyugh Tactics: The otyugh shuffles to within 15 feet of a PC, then uses improved grab to start a grapple with a PC and constrict him until he falls unconscious. Then it moves on to the next foe. This is its lair, so it fights until slain. Remember that the otyugh’s bite can infect a target with it's bite.

## Obstacles

The room has 1 foot of standing water on the floor, causing it to become Difficult Terrain. It costs 2 squares of movement to enter any square in this room. 

 

The mallet is the target of an [[Animate Objects|animate objects]] spell made permanent. It won’t react to the PCs in any way. Anyone with can make a DC 7 [[1 - Arcana|Arcana]] check to recognize a ceremonial beat similar to that used by modern-day goblinoids. 

 

A secret door ([[1 - Investigation|Investigation]] DC 10 to locate) leads to a vertical shaft that connects this room to the [[5.1.8 - Chamber of Ascension|Chamber of Ascension]]. A dwarf gets a Advantage because the doors are made of stone.

## Rewards

200 sp, and a soaking wet Robe of Useful Items
