---
created: 2021.12.05T16:58:01-05:00
updated: 2021.12.05T16:58:01-05:00
---
---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 5.1 - The Ziggurat
up:
  - 5.1 - The Ziggurat
prev:
  - 5.1.1 - Antechamber
next:
  - 5.1.3 - Animal Sacrifice Chamber
sibling:
  - 5.1.3 - Animal Sacrifice Chamber
RWtopicId: Topic_1738
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[5.1 - The Ziggurat]] | [[5.1.1 - Antechamber]] | [[5.1.3 - Animal Sacrifice Chamber]] | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>5.1.2 - Offertory Chamber</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Encounter

**Setting**: Indoors

**Encounter Type**: Puzzle

This room was once used to collect tithes and offerings from the faithful. The ziggurat’s priests are long gone, but they didn’t disarm one of the traps designed to catch thieves.

A dais with a solid stone altar dominates this room. From the doorway, you can see a slot cut into the top of the altar. Along the walls, faded frescoes of leering, red-skinned demons face the door on the opposite side of the chamber. Dozens of small hooks are embedded in the ceiling. Thick chains run from each corner of the altar to the ceiling.

The hooks are unimportant; tapestries used to hang from them. The chains prevent the altar from falling when the trap is triggered.

## Obstacles

[[Ziggurat Pit Trap 1]]: If a character searches the altar, a result of 15 on the Wisdom (Perception) check reveals a drawer low on the back of the altar—but it takes a result of 25 to notice that the drawer latch is the trigger for a trap. If the PCs touch the latch and the trap hasn’t been disabled, the eight squares surrounding the altar open trap doors that drop would-be thieves into a pit. The drawer is empty.
