---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 5.1 - The Ziggurat
up:
  - 5.1 - The Ziggurat
prev:
  - 5.1.5 - Chamber of Prayer
next:
  - 5.1.7 - Chamber of Circles
sibling:
  - 5.1.7 - Chamber of Circles
RWtopicId: Topic_1743
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[5.1 - The Ziggurat]] | [[5.1.5 - Chamber of Prayer]] | [[5.1.7 - Chamber of Circles]] | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>5.1.6 - Crypt</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Encounter

**Setting**: Indoors

**Encounter Type**: Exploration

To get into this room, the PCs must open the stuck stone door. This requires a DC 14 Strength check; up to two PCs can try to open the door at the same time. Alternatively, the PCs can bash it down with weapons. The door has 60 hit points.

## Setup

Dozens of stone sarcophagi rise like islands from the murky water that fills this vast chamber. Each features a row of goblinoid skulls carved around the lid.

## Challenge

Ochre Jelly Tactics: The ochre jelly is a straightforward combatant; it is an ooze, after all. It just tries to use its improved grab and constrict abilities against whichever PC is most convenient. Remember that it splits into identical jellies if it’s damaged by electricity or by a slashing or piercing weapon.

## Obstacles

This room also has standing water in it (Difficult Terrain). PCs can also jump from one sarcophagus lid to another if they like. The sarcophagus nearest the door has an ochre jelly in it. There’s a crack in the side of the sarcophagus big enough for the ochre jelly to move through.

## Rewards

Not every sarcophagus is occupied. If Lucan is reduced to 0 hit points, he uses an empty sarcophagus to rest in. The PCs can pry open each of the sarcophagi to see if the goblinoid dead were buried with anything valuable. This work is time-consuming. Rather than play it out, just tell the PCs that it would take one character two hours to check all the sarcophagi for loot. (If more than one PC participates, the time is reduced proportionately, so four PCs could do this work in 30 minutes.)

Four sarcophagi have valuables in them: a gem worth 400 gp; a potion of levitate; a cold iron longsword; and a wand of color spray (25 charges). The rest have only moldy bones or are empty.
