---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 5.1 - The Ziggurat
up:
  - 5.1 - The Ziggurat
prev:
  - 5.1.7 - Chamber of Circles
RWtopicId: Topic_1745
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[5.1 - The Ziggurat]] | [[5.1.7 - Chamber of Circles]] | --- | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>5.1.8 - Chamber of Ascension</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Encounter

The uppermost chamber in the ziggurat has become Lucan’s fi nal sanctuary. Lucan spends most of his time in this chamber, sitting in the thronelike chair and contemplating his fate. Once, goblinoid priests communed with the spirits of their most powerful departed brethren in this place. Now Lucan plans to utilize one of the sarcophagi when the sun rises.

**Light**: Continual Flame in wall braziers cast bright light

**Sound**: None

**Reaction**: None

## Setup

When the PCs reach the doorway, read:

Unlike in the other chambers inside the ziggurat, flames from copper braziers mounted halfway up the walls provide light in this area. A high, vaulted ceiling stretches 30 feet up from the floor, providing enough room for a 25-foot-tall statue of a bat-winged, ram-headed demon from an ancient age. Between the statue’s feet is a thronelike chair of black marble. Lucan sits upon the throne, staring at you through half-lidded eyes. A series of low stone sarcophagi stands between you and the statue.

## Participants

Lucan attacks immediately, of course, leaping atop a sarcophagus. He vents all his rage at his situation on the PCs, making him a terrible opponent indeed.

## Challenge

Lucan’s Tactics: See the appendix for a detailed discussion of Lucan’s tactics. Lucan has temporarily seized control of the soul blade, but he would rather not wield it, keeping it sheathed and using his slam attack instead. The soul blade can still act, however, and starts using its confusion ability if Lucan is reduced below 20 hit points. In this encounter, Lucan’s preferred means of escape is the secret door behind the statue. It leads to the vertical shaft that drops to the crypt. He can hide in a sarcophagus there.
