---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 5.1 - The Ziggurat
up:
  - 5.1 - The Ziggurat
prev:
  - 5.1.3 - Animal Sacrifice Chamber
next:
  - 5.1.5 - Chamber of Prayer
sibling:
  - 5.1.5 - Chamber of Prayer
RWtopicId: Topic_1741
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[5.1 - The Ziggurat]] | [[5.1.3 - Animal Sacrifice Chamber]] | [[5.1.5 - Chamber of Prayer]] | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>5.1.4 - Hall of Statues</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Encounter

**Setting**: Indoors

**Encounter Type**: Exploration

If the PCs follow the staircase down, they reach a point where the stairs continue down and a hallway leads to another chamber—the Hall of Statues. Seeing humanoid statues often makes veteran D&D players worry about medusas and cockatrices. But sometimes a statue is just a statue, and the PCs instead have a straightforward fi ght with gricks here.

**Light**: None

**Sound**: The PCs hear a faint drumming noise

**Reaction**: None

## Setup

When the PCs reach the doorway, read or paraphrase the following:

Moss festoons this room, draping itself from large clumps in the ceiling and covering the walls in large patches. Statues, mostly of robed hobgoblins with a few armored bugbears, stand in clusters, almost as if they were conversing with each other. Each stands on its own pedestal. The air is moist here and smells fresher than elsewhere in the ziggurat.

## Challenge

Two gricks hide in the far corner of the room, near the gap in the wall that leads outside. They have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide; have the PCs make Wisdom (Perception) checks as they enter the room. No checks are necessary for the gricks if the PCs have a light source.

Grick Tactics: Each grick simply rushes, attacking the nearest two PCs. If a grick kills a PC or knocks one unconscious, it drags the body back to a rear corner of the room. Once there, it performs a coup de grace if necessary and starts eating. If reduced to 3 hit points or less, a grick flees through the gap, trying to reach the relative safety of the lake.

## Obstacles

Anyone, PC or grick, in the narrow passage beyond the gap Disadvantage on attack rolls and have half-cover.
