---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 1 - Job Offer
up:
  - 1 - Job Offer
next:
  - 1.2 - The Iron Gate
sibling:
  - 1.2 - The Iron Gate
RWtopicId: Topic_1619
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[1 - Job Offer]] | --- | [[1.2 - The Iron Gate]] | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>1.1 - These Coins Have Many Friends</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Introduction

## Setup

The adventure begins at one of Sharn’s taverns or wherever the PCs relax between adventures. The encounter is written from this perspective. If they have a headquarters or particular place they frequent, adapt this encounter to take place there. Read or paraphrase the following:

It’s another rainy day in Sharn, but the warmth of the fireplace and your companions’ good cheer keeps the outside gloom at bay. You’re relaxing with a late breakfast when a cloaked figure wearing the blue-and-silver livery of House Orien approaches your table. “Message for you, kind sirs,” the courier announces as he drops a wax-sealed envelope on the table. Then he stands there, looking at you expectantly.

The House Orien courier doesn’t know who sent the message or what it says, only that he received it this morning from his superior at the house enclave in Sharn. He stands around in the hope that the PCs will tip him, although he’s too polite to ask directly. He remains beside the table until he gets a tip or the PCs send him on his way.

The envelope contains a letter and a number of platinum pieces equal to the number of PCs. Adjust the number in the description accordingly. When the PCs open the envelope, read:

The envelope contains two sheets of paper. Four platinum coins are attached to the first sheet with red wax. On the second sheet, a few sentences have been scribbled in a cramped style. 

 

“These coins have many friends who would like to meet you. Come to the northeast stairs of Myriad Tower, upper city, at noon. Bring travel gear and those you trust. Also bring your sense of urgency and knack for discretion. Give this parchment to the guard near the stairs, and he will let you ascend.” The note is signed with a cryptic “V” beside the black silhouette of a stylized lantern.

## Additional Details

Noon is only an hour and a half away. Depending on where the PCs are in Sharn, they probably don’t have time for much beyond a quick trip to their domiciles to pick up any adventuring equipment (although they could do some shopping along the way if they know what they want).
