---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 1 - Job Offer
up:
  - 1 - Job Offer
prev:
  - 1.1 - These Coins Have Many Friends
next:
  - 1.3 - Impromptu Audition
sibling:
  - 1.3 - Impromptu Audition
RWtopicId: Topic_1620
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[1 - Job Offer]] | [[1.1 - These Coins Have Many Friends]] | [[1.3 - Impromptu Audition]] | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>1.2 - The Iron Gate</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Encounter

## Setup

Myriad Tower, a nondescript structure in a nondescript part of Sharn, rises into the stormy sky. The PCs reach the place without incident. The northeast stairs are blocked by a heavy iron gate that is locked tight. There is no obvious guard in sight.

## Challenge

A locked iron gate blocks the stone stairs the PCs need to climb. The lock is of amazing quality (DC 20 Open Lock check), and the gate is strong and sturdy (60 hp, break DC 14). The easiest way to get past the gate is to follow the letter’s instructions: “Give this parchment to the guard near the stairs.” The guard’s location isn’t readily apparent, however; because this location is the secret headquarters of a secret organization, he isn’t just stationed at the stairs for anyone to see—instead, he hides in plain sight nearby, posing as a beggar.

With a successful DC 7 Perception check, the PCs notice a fi gure sitting in an alcove within sight of the iron gate.

## Obstacles

If the PCs approach the fi gure, they see what appears to be a beggar in tattered rags. He seems to barely notice them, but he holds out a clay bowl when they get close.

This is the guard mentioned in the letter, though he looks nothing like one. If the PCs drop coins in his bowl, he shakes his head. “Wrong key,” he rumbles in a strong, out-of-character voice. Few beggars sound so powerful and robust.

If the PCs place the parchment sheet from “V” in the bowl, the beggar-guard nods his approval. “Go up,” he says in his strong, powerful voice as he slips the parchment sheet into his ragged clothing. “The captain is waiting for you.” With that, the iron gate swings open, providing access to the northeast stairs.
