---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 1 - Job Offer
up:
  - 1 - Job Offer
prev:
  - 1.3 - Impromptu Audition
RWtopicId: Topic_1622
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[1 - Job Offer]] | [[1.3 - Impromptu Audition]] | --- | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>1.4 - A Mandate and a Mission</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Interaction

**Encounter Type**: Social

This is an interaction encounter. The PCs get their mission and ask any questions they might have. Once the PCs follow Viorr back to the worktable, read:

Viorr rummages in the satchel hanging on his chair. “I represent an element of the King’s Citadel known as the Dark Lanterns,” he says. “We perform certain . . . intelligence-related . . . duties for King Boranel. We need adventurers of skill and action who can bring a rogue agent back to us—alive, if possible. If you’re willing to swear to keep secret what you’re about to hear, I’ll tell you more.”

Once the PCs do so, he continues:

“One of our best agents, Lucan Stellos, disappeared two days ago. Yesterday, a high-security vault we maintain here in Sharn was compromised, and a powerful magic sword was stolen. Shortly before dawn this morning, Lucan was spotted leaving Sharn by the east road. We want you to catch him and bring him and the sword back.

 

“We’ll pay you 2,000 gold each to return Lucan alive, plus another 500 each if you recover the sword. If Lucan dies, we’ll pay you 1,000 gold each for proof of his passing. Either way, we need Lucan back here—or dead so that he can’t betray us. The price is nonnegotiable. Let’s just pretend that we haggled, you won, and these are the terms we arrived at.

 

“Oh, and there’s one other complication. Based on eyewitness accounts and the condition of the bodies left near the vault, Lucan appears to have gained powers he never had before. Still interested?”

Viorr starts pulling papers out of the satchel. When he shows the PCs the picture of Lucan, show the players the illustration on this page. When he reveals the picture of Lucan’s coach to the PCs, show the players the illustration on page 7.

“I’m going to go through this quickly, so pay attention,” Viorr says. “Here’s a picture of Lucan, done by one of the King’s artists. Lucan is a male human, well trained in both combat and espionage. Here’s a picture of the black coach he was seen traveling in as he passed through the east gate. Here are traveling papers that identify you as working for the King of Breland. Through House Vadalis, we’ve arranged to have magebred horses waiting for you in a stable near the east gate. Consider them an additional payment; we’ll settle with House Vadalis later. 

 

“Here’s a letter of credit. If you run into unanticipated expenses, present it at any House Kundarak bank and you’ll receive a cash advance. A friendly warning: King Boranel doesn’t like to see his gold spent frivolously, so save the letter of credit until you really need it. “The sword is called the soul blade, and it has a big ruby in the pommel. Our mages say it radiates evil, so be careful with it.

 

“We don’t know what Lucan’s intentions are, but we do have a clue based on a search of his living quarters. Based on some notes he made—notes he thought he destroyed— we know he’s going to Trolanport. That’s in Zilargo. The only other word we were able to salvage from the notes was ‘krell.’ We have no idea who or what a krell is. “You now know everything I know. Lucan’s got a head start of several hours. Any questions before you leave?”

## Additional Details

The PCs undoubtedly have questions. Here are Viorr’s answers, which you can read or paraphrase as you like.

How come you don’t send your own agents? Why us? “Lucan was a trusted agent before all of this occurred. We have no way of knowing whether Lucan has allies within the Citadel. So I can’t send my own people—I’m the only member of the Dark Lanterns that I trust. Time is against us, so I’ve turned to you for help.”

Why do you want Lucan alive? “In our business, information is the most valuable commodity. We need to know what he knows, what he’s told and to whom, and who he’s now working for. Otherwise the same thing could happen again. Of course, dead is better than in enemy hands.”

What kind of powers does Lucan have? “We aren’t sure. He’s a master of disguise, but that’s a trained ability. He was able to command an otherwise loyal agent into opening the vault. He shrugged off attacks that should have brought down a normal man. He walked down the side of a tower just as you or I would walk across this room. Could be the sword, but he displayed some of these powers before he got his hands on it.”

Tell us more about the soul blade. “We don’t know much. We acquired it from a Karrnathi warlord shortly before the Last War ended, but we never got a chance to study it properly. We know it’s strongly magical and strongly evil. Anything else would just be a guess at this point.”

What did Lucan do for you? “Counterintelligence. He was superb at gaining the trust of enemy agents, fi guring out who they worked for, and exposing entire networks of enemy spies. Not only have we lost that expertise, but one of those spy networks may have turned Lucan against us.”

Who are Lucan’s friends and enemies? “Lucan has a sister, Grilsha, here in Sharn. We’ve been looking for her all morning, but we haven’t tracked her down yet. She’s a striking young woman with long red hair. As for enemies, you can start with anyone from the intelligence community. Other nations, criminal groups, the dragonmarked houses—almost every power group has some sort of intelligence network it relies on, and Lucan has interfered with them all. There are a lot of people who want him dead or working on their side.”

Why did we just fi ght a dire ape? “I wanted to see if you had the precision to take down a foe without killing it. Lucan’s no ape, I realize. I also wanted to see if you could handle yourselves. I don’t want to send an inexperienced party off on a dangerous and important mission for the King.”
