---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 4.1 - Gallery Level
up:
  - 4.1 - Gallery Level
prev:
  - 4.1.2 - Drow Nests
next:
  - 4.1.3 - Stairs up to Temple Level
sibling:
  - 4.1.3 - Stairs up to Temple Level
RWtopicId: Topic_1642
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[4.1 - Gallery Level]] | [[4.1.2 - Drow Nests]] | [[4.1.3 - Stairs up to Temple Level]] | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>4.1.8 - Savage Deity</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Encounter

**Setting**: Indoors

**Encounter Type**: Exploration

The door between areas this room and the West Antechamber stands open just far enough for a Medium creature to squeeze through by making a DC 10 Dexterity check. The effigy that the drow worship as a physical manifestation of their god lives within the chamber—a Gargantuan monstrous scorpion that the drow placed in the chamber as a hatchling and have raised to the point where it is too large to exit the chamber.

## Setup

If the PCs explore the chamber, read:

Half a human body lies tangled on the stone floor, empty of blood and horribly mangled. It wears the remnants of an Emerald Claw soldier’s uniform.

The “god” survives on the offerings provided by the drow. It has grown hungry of late, but one of the Emerald Claw soldiers, ordered to check out the room by Garrow, provided it with enough food so that it is merely famished. It waits in darkness in the center of the chamber for its next morsel, attacking any creature that manages to squeeze through the door.

## Challenge

The monstrous scorpion attacks creatures that enter the chamber. If the door is pushed wide, it pursues potential meals into the gallery level and beyond.

## Rewards

Over the years, a few choice offerings were brought to the drow “god.” These are scattered haphazardly throughout this chamber. A casual search of the chamber reveals 120 ancient gold coins (worth a total of 3,000 gp to a collector), 3 golden-yellow topaz gems worth 500 gp each, and an intricately carved iron rod depicting a feathered serpent.
