---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 4.1 - Gallery Level
up:
  - 4.1 - Gallery Level
prev:
  - 4.1.1 - Giant Steps
next:
  - 4.1.8 - Savage Deity
sibling:
  - 4.1.8 - Savage Deity
RWtopicId: Topic_1641
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[4.1 - Gallery Level]] | [[4.1.1 - Giant Steps]] | [[4.1.8 - Savage Deity]] | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>4.1.2 - Drow Nests</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Encounter

**Setting**: Indoors

**Encounter Type**: Combat

The drow nests fi ll the space between the columns along the south end of the gallery level.

**Light**: Sunlight

**Sound**: Surrounding jungle noises

**Reaction**: The dire rats now scavenging in the nests have a hostile reaction to intruders.

Rounded, mud-brown structures infest this portion of the great gallery, jumbled and stuck together. Formed of dirt, the multitude of mud tubes appears to create a series of enclosed tunnels large enough to admit human-sized creatures. The structures are piled one atop the other with seemingly no concern for order or ease of access. Many of the rounded structures are scorched and broken open, spilling blackened bones and other less easily identifiable contents onto the gallery floor.

## Setup

The drow who inhabited this ruin created their mud tube dwellings using soil and water. Hardened, the mud walls and the overhanging ruin provided ample protection from the elements. 

 

The Emerald Claw task force burned out the nests, forcing the surviving drow to fl ee into the surrounding jungle. Now scavengers occupy the ruined dwellings, and disease is rampant—for each hour a character spends exploring the nests, he or she is exposed to fi lth fever as if bitten by a dire rat. 

 

A typical mud tube is 6 feet in diameter, and rooms are dead ends of larger spaces where two or more mud tubes meet.

## Challenge

In the hours that have passed since the drow were burned out of the nest, scavengers have moved into the tunnels to feed on the dead. If PCs enter the nests, they draw the attention of several territorial dire rats.

## Rewards

Characters could choose to explore the warren of enclosed tunnels, but the winding, chaotic construction makes this a nonintuitive process— exploring the nest is like traversing a maze. The PCs could spend hours cataloging every last winding tunnel and muddaubed dead end. Failing that, for each 2 hours a character spends exploring the burned-out nests, he or she can attempt a DC 10 Investigation  check. A success yields a roll on Table 3–5: Treasure for 3rd-level treasures (page 52 of the Dungeon Master’s Guide). Obviously the burned-out nests are not a never-ending source of treasure—once a total of four rolls have been made on the table, all the remaining valuables are cleaned out of the nest.
