---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 4.1 - Gallery Level
up:
  - 4.1 - Gallery Level
next:
  - 4.1.2 - Drow Nests
sibling:
  - 4.1.2 - Drow Nests
RWtopicId: Topic_1640
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[4.1 - Gallery Level]] | --- | [[4.1.2 - Drow Nests]] | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>4.1.1 - Giant Steps</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Encounter

**Setting**: Outdoors

**Encounter Type**: Combat

The most direct path into the ruins is by the steps that lead to the Gallery Level.

**Light**: Sunlight

**Sound**: Surrounding jungle noises

**Reaction**: The drow have a hostile reaction to the approach of the adventurers.

Garrow had a force of fifty soldiers and ten Karrnathi skeletons deposited from his airship into the field near the ruin. Then, keeping just a single air-skiff, he ordered the airship’s captain to hide the vessel in the jungle to await further directions. Garrow’s task force discovered that strange, dark-skinned elves called drow lived in the gallery level of the ruin. 

 

Confident in his troops, Garrow didn’t attempt to parley—he ordered his men to wipe out the drow. Garrow lost fourteen soldiers and four skeletons in the conflict, but his troops managed to kill five times as many of the drow; the rest fled from the ruin. With the drow threat eliminated, the task force began to explore the ruin, looking for the location of the final schema. 

 

In the day since Garrow and his task force entered the ruin, the drow have returned to reclaim their home. They have vowed to destroy the intruders, and the adventurers are seen in the same light as the Emerald Claw in the wake of the terrible disaster that has befallen the tribe.

## Setup

Five massive stone steps rise 50 feet to a colossal, open-air gallery capped by the oppressive weight of the ancient ruin. A series of 20-footwide, 50-foot-tall stone columns surrounds the gallery and supports the upper levels of the ruin. A 10-foot-wide channel cut into the stone next to the great stairs contains a far smaller staircase, providing a crumbling route for creatures more or less your own size. 

 

The carnage of a great battle litters the smaller staircase. Dozens of bodies are scattered across the steps. A few bear the distinctive militaristic uniform worn by soldiers of the Emerald Claw, but many more are ebony-skinned elves wearing clothing made of carapaces and strange leather. Scavenger birds cover the bodies, feasting on the remains.

Characters who spend time examining the upper levels of the ruin eventually see dark shapes on the level 150 feet above the ground. These are dire apes that live on the temple level of the ruin. They congregate and attack anyone attempting to climb the ruin, or, through flight, to land on any upper portion of the ruin. See areas Temple Ledge and King of the Apes for more information on the dire apes that live within the ruin.

## Participants

The vengeance-seeking drow hide among the gallery level. The first drow group the adventurers encounter consists of six warriors led by the drow chief Amoxtli.

## Challenge

The task of Amoxtli’s team (one of four groups of drow who have secretly returned to the ruin) is to watch the front steps. He and his warriors hide in the shadows of the columns between the Giant Steps and Temple Level Stairs, watching for the approach of the adventurers. If they see the adventurers approach up the slave stairs, they release their prepared trap—a massive boulder, large enough to fi ll the stairway. As soon as the boulder begins its descent, the drow run in its wake, ready to deal with anyone who survives the crushing rock. 

 

Rolling Boulder on the Slave Stairs: All creatures on the slave stairs are subject to the rolling boulder. It deals 8d6 points of damage to anyone who fails a DC 10 Dexterity save. Those who make the save take half damage (4d6 points).

## Obstacles

The drow fi ght to the death. If any are captured, and if the language barrier can be overcome (the drow speak their own tongue), they tell the tale of the hateful invaders, how they attacked without provocation and burned out the drow nests. The drow do not know what the invaders seek, but they assume it is some ancient secret of the temple. The drow rarely enter the higher levels of the ruin, for it is best to leave the things of the ancient ones well and truly alone. 

 

A fi ght on the steps that lasts longer than 10 rounds draws the attention of a few Emerald Claw soldiers in the temple level, who eventually hear the distant sounds of battle. The soldiers stationed in area 15 are most likely to respond, coming out to the open edge of the temple level and looking down. If this occurs and the characters are seen, the task force thereafter actively expects trouble and is on guard against the PCs.
