---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 2 - From Here to There
up:
  - 2 - From Here to There
prev:
  - 2.4 - Island Encounter
down:
  - 2.5.1 - Seeking the Emerald Claw
  - 2.5.2 - The Riverboat
RWtopicId: Topic_1769
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[2 - From Here to There]] | [[2.4 - Island Encounter]] | --- | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>2.5 - Stormreach</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Encounter

The Sea Dart completes the journey to the northern shores of Xen’drik and surfaces within sight of the trade city of Stormreach. Because the Sea Dart is a secret that House Cannith wishes to preserve, Byam sets the adventurers on land about a half a mile down the coast.

## Setup

**Light**: Daylight

**Sound**: The sounds of a small city (automatic).

**Reaction**: None.

## Participants

When the Sea Dart surfaces and the characters get their fi rst view of the city, read the following and show the players the illustration of Stormreach.

Stormreach rises over the harbor, the only apparent evidence of civilization along this otherwise jungle coastline. Great stone buildings form the foundation of the trade city, though all manners of smaller wood structures fill in the gaps between the large structures. A stout stone wall surrounds the city, and a complex series of docks and wharfs connect the city to the sea.

## Challenge

Once Byam secures the undersea ship and hides it down the coast, the adventurers are free to disembark. Byam indicates that he will wait for 30 days before declaring the adventurers lost and returning across the Thunder Sea toward Sharn. “Return before that time, and the Sea Dart will carry you home,” Byam says. “Take too long, and you’re on your own.” 

 

“Slip into Stormreach by means of the docks,” Byam advises. “These travel papers indicate that you arrived aboard the House Lyrandar galleon Strong Wind and that you are part of an expedition from Morgrave University. Just don’t reveal any of this where anyone from the expedition can hear you—they probably won’t go along with your story, since they don’t know you from the King of Q’barra. Good luck.” 

 

Byam gives the adventurers the traveling papers and a letter of credit with the House Cannith seal. “In case you need to acquire transportation into the jungle,” Byam says. “You can use the credit at the House Cannith enclave, and only at the enclave, and only for transport.”

## Additional Details

### Exploring the City

The city docks lead immediately into the city markets. When the adventurers make their way into Stormreach, read or paraphrase the following:

A single canal bisects the market ward, and the wide bridge that crosses it is crowded with permanent shop fronts and hastily erected stalls, with merchants proclaiming the quality and superiority of their wares. You see livestock, sweetmeats, timber, silver, pearls, furs, crystals, vellum and pens, weaponry, and a host of additional goods. 

 

The street on either side of the canal is choked with carts, temporary and permanent storefronts, and the conversation of hundreds of people buying and selling all manner of things. Dancers, jugglers, fire-eaters, puppeteers, and purported sorcerers peddle their talents to anyone with coin and a modicum of patience.

There are many distractions in the wild, thriving trade city of Stormreach. The adventurers have one mission here: to fi nd the Emerald Claw task force. If the task force can’t be found in a timely fashion, the adventurers must head into the jungle and attempt to locate the ruin of which Kedran’s notes speak. 

 

The adventurers can purchase any supplies and magic items normally available in a small city. 

 

Along the way, as the PCs ask questions and explore, they encounter a strange, mysterious, but ultimately helpful woman known only as Muroni (see below).


---
## Governed Content
- [[2.5.1 - Seeking the Emerald Claw]]
- [[2.5.2 - The Riverboat]]
