---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 2.5 - Stormreach
up:
  - 2.5 - Stormreach
next:
  - 2.5.2 - The Riverboat
sibling:
  - 2.5.2 - The Riverboat
RWtopicId: Topic_1776
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[2.5 - Stormreach]] | --- | [[2.5.2 - The Riverboat]] | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>2.5.1 - Seeking the Emerald Claw</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Encounter

**Setting**: Outdoors

**Encounter Type**: Social

The best chance the characters have of discovering news of the [[Emerald Claw]] task force is through judicious use of the [[3 - Investigation|Investigation]] skill (unless they have access to spells or [[scrying|Scrying]] effects that immediately provide the characters the information they seek; see result DC 15 below). 

 

The adventurers can ask about a small party of armored humans, possibly wearing distinctive helmets with a half faceplate and the insignia of a green dragon claw. They can ask about a white-skinned vampire, or about the warforged with the wicked [[Campaigns/5etools Compendium/items/scimitar|scimitar]] that accompanies them. 

 

Each use of the [[3 - Investigation|Investigation]] skill for this purpose requires 1d4+1 hours of tavern-hopping, alleywalking, and contact-making, as well as 1d6 gold pieces for bribes and drinks—only one PC makes the check, but the others can help using the standard rules for aiding another’s skill check. Sometimes, tenacity is better than outright skill, and the longer the characters keep trying to find out information regarding the task force’s arrival in the city, the better their odds at discovering what they seek: Modify the [[3 - Investigation|Investigation]] check result in regard to the task force by +1 for every prior check with a result of at least 15 or higher. However, if the characters make 3 or more [[3 - Investigation|Investigation]] checks, they stir up trouble (see “Asking Too Many Questions”).
<table><tbody><tr><td>
DC
</td><td>
Investigation Result
</td></tr><tr><td>
< 5
</td><td>
“I’ve got no idea what you’re talking about.”
</td></tr><tr><td>
6 - 10
</td><td>
“Lots of strange people come to Stormreach. Unless you’re seeking an army, I doubt you’ll find who you’re looking for.”
</td></tr><tr><td>
11 - 14
</td><td>
“You know, I have seen some of those uniforms you describe. Yeah, day before yesterday. No, I don’t recall anything else.”
</td></tr><tr><td>
15 - 19
</td><td>
“Yes, I remember a group like that, with a warforged. I’d say about two days ago. They came by airship, a fast-looking thing, and asked questions about the deep jungle. They’re gone now.”
</td></tr><tr><td>
20+
</td><td>
“They headed up the Rachi River, maneuvering their airship between the trees. It was a sight to see! I doubt anyone’ll ever see them again. I hear they were on the trail of some treasure, something they wouldn’t name. Even talked for a while with the leader of the Morgrave expedition.”
</td></tr></tbody></table>
 

## Setup

The DM is free to make up colorful characters from whom the PCs obtain their information. On the other hand, you can describe the results in general terms. 

 

The adventurers might look for the leader of the Morgrave University expedition. They might decide to forego fi nding the Emerald Claw task force and head right for the ruins. They might check with the only airship docking tower in Stormreach to ask about a recent arrival. If they stir up trouble by making three or more Gather Information checks in pursuit of the knowledge they seek (or if they’ve been having an easy time so far and you want to send another challenge their way), use the “Asking Too Many Questions” encounter. Each of these possible encounters is covered briefl y below.

## Challenge

### Morgrave Expedition

The expedition from Morgrave University arrived on the Strong Wind a few days ago. Led by Provost Baris Kaven (NG male human expert 4), the expedition includes about a dozen students and two guides (LN male humans, ranger 4 and fi ghter 3). This is a teaching expedition, meaning that the group won’t be exploring any new sites. Instead, it will work in a secured site near Stormreach that is relatively safe. 

 

The expedition can be found at a boarding house not far from where the Strong Wind is docked during the evenings. During the day, if the PCs wish to question the provost, they must walk an hour into the jungle and fi nd him at the ruins. 

 

If the PCs can change the provost’s attitude from indifferent to friendly (DC 15 Diplomacy check), he remembers talking with a half-elf airship captain and his warforged fi rst mate yesterday. “They could be the ones you seek, but I don’t feel comfortable revealing what we discussed.” 

 

If they can change his attitude to helpful (DC 30 Diplomacy check), he reveals that they wanted to know what to expect along the Rachi River. “They wanted to know the lay of the land between here and a spot some four hundred miles inland. I told them that if they follow the river, they’d be safer than trying to cut through the jungle. The warforged called itself Scimitar, and the half-elf introduced himself as Captain Rarwog.”

### House Lyrandar Docking Tower

The half-elf House of Storm maintains a vast enclave in [[Stormreach]], complete with waterside docks, warehouses, and an airship docking tower. The half-elf tower master, a battle-hardened woman with dark red hair, has no time to answer foolish questions. Some gold will loosen her tongue, however, and she responds well to 20 gold pieces or more. If the adventurers pay the bribe, she admits that a privateer airship docked at the tower two days ago and departed yesterday. It was captained by a half-elf named Rarwog, but the crew consisted of armored warriors, a warforged, and—this was strange—she was sure she saw an armored skeleton moving around belowdecks when she helped secure the airship to the tower. Only a few of the crew disembarked during their short stay, and when it left, the vessel headed inland along the Rachi River. 

 

If the PCs don’t offer a suitable bribe, the half-elf tower master sends them on their way without any information.

### Asking Too Many Questions

The Order of the Emerald Claw, ever a secretive organization, is also thorough. Before the task force headed inland, Garrow left behind an enforcer to deal with anyone who might show up asking questions about his task force. (If the adventurers participated in the earlier parts of this story, Garrow has the enforcer watch specifi - cally for them.) Thus, when the characters begin asking questions, they draw attention to themselves if they use their Gather Information skill three times or if you simply want to present them with another challenge. After you decide to use this encounter, the adventurers receive a message by courier. The text, scrawled in blood, reads: “I answer asks for gold. I Surthain. Meet now, Xaponath Lane, Old Quarter.” 

 

The address leads to a run-down section of the city. Here, in a dead-end alley fi lled with shadows and protected from the sun, the enforcer ambushes the adventurers. The enforcer, a bodak named Surthain, isn’t particularly bright, but it does enjoy its work and is loyal to Garrow and the Blood of Vol. Surthain wears a body-covering black cloak and hood.

### House Cannith Enclave

As Byam promised, the letter of credit can be used to acquire transportation at the House Cannith enclave. After the adventurers show the letter and explain where they need to go, the ranking agent provides them with a document that secures the services of the riverboat captain, Chinxero. “You can fi nd Chinxero and his riverboat at the docks on the Rachi River,” the House Cannith agent explains. When the PCs are ready to leave Stormreach, go to “The Riverboat”.

### Muroni

Someone waits for the adventurers in Stormreach. She has been here for more than one month, sent by her patron to await the ones spoken of in prophecy. She is Muroni, an elf who follows the teachings of the great silver dragon, Vuulaytherus of the Chamber. The silver dragon studies the draconic Prophecy and uses a number of nondragon agents throughout the world to watch for specifi c signs and portents.

 

Vuulaytherus has been studying a particularly convoluted passage of the Prophecy that was discovered inside the Endworld Mountains. The dragonmarks, appearing as veins of silver and gold inside a deep chamber within the mountains, tell of great events surrounding a group of adventurers connected to House Cannith—or at least that’s how Vuulaytherus has interpreted the verses. The signs and portents pointed toward Stormreach and the interior of Xen’drik as the focal point for this portion of the Prophecy, and so Vuulaytherus sent Muroni to bear witness to unfolding events.

 

Muroni has no overt mission other than to witness events in Xen’drik and report back to Vuulaytherus. The silver dragon has great interest in the mission that brought the adventurers to Xen’drik and the results of their actions. Thus, Muroni’s goal is to join up with the adventurers and offer them her services, survive to the end of their mission in Xen’drik, aid them in small ways, and observe what happens. Then, with information in hand, she plans to return to Vuulaytherus and make her report. 

 

Muroni approaches the adventurers at the fi rst opportunity, either while they are asking questions around the city or perhaps to step in and help them against the bodak. She knows nothing about the Emerald Claw task force, but seems to know a lot about the adventurers thanks to Vuulaytherus’s interpretation of the Prophecy. For example, she was told to locate the adventurers connected to House Cannith who would come to Xen’drik from beneath the sea. She watched the arrival of the Sea Dart, waiting at the place the Prophecy directed her to, and she knows that the PCs are the ones spoken of in the Endworld Mountains verses. 

 

The elf woman explains exactly who she is. “I am a simple scholar,” Muroni says, “who follows the draconic Prophecy to fi nd deeper meaning in the world. The Prophecy speaks of great events about to occur here in Xen’drik, events that will revolve around you. Allow me to witness these events, and I will aid you in any way I can.” Muroni is introspective but not given to vocal speculation, though she may make cryptic remarks now and again in response to certain events or questions, such as “And thus do the lines of Fate and Desire intertwine,” “As the Prophecy decrees,” and similar pronouncements.

## Rewards

If the PCs successfully fi nd the information they seek, award them experience points equivalent to what they would receive for defeating a CR 6 monster (2,300 XP).

## Additional Details

If the characters allow Surthain to escape and they remain in Stormreach for another day, the bodak attacks them again after it recovers
