---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 2.5 - Stormreach
up:
  - 2.5 - Stormreach
prev:
  - 2.5.1 - Seeking the Emerald Claw
RWtopicId: Topic_1777
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[2.5 - Stormreach]] | [[2.5.1 - Seeking the Emerald Claw]] | --- | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>2.5.2 - The Riverboat</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Encounter

**Setting**: Outdoors

**Encounter Type**: Social

As anyone at the river dock can tell the characters, the Rachi River is the largest waterway snaking into Stormreach, and its headwaters are said to lie far south, in the dark interior of Xen’drik.

## Setup

The adventurers have no difficulty finding Chinxero and his riverboat, the Marlow. Even with the letter of passage guaranteed by the House Cannith agent, Chinxero balks when he hears how far up the river the adventurers want to go. 

 

“Too far,” Chinxero says. “Too far and too dangerous. Besides, I have other runs to make, schedules to keep. Find another charter. Leave me be.” 

 

Muroni shows her worth by offering to pay Chinxero to make the journey, gold to add to whatever the House Cannith letter of passage provides. She can provide up to 4,000 gp. If Chinxero demands more, the PCs will have to make up the difference.

If the PCs try to convince Chinxero to allow them to charter passage on his ship, they can attempt to use the Persuasion skill on the captain. His initial attitude is unfriendly. The following circumstance modifiers apply: Muroni offers the captain additional gold (+4); PCs explain that they may find lucrative trade items in the deep jungle, which Chinxero would be in an ideal position to act upon (+4); characters threaten violence (–4). 

 

Let one PC make the Persuasion check, and use the results listed below.

 

Hostile (check result less than 5): “Get out, I care nothing for your crazy mission.” Chinxero calls for his crew to attack the characters if they do not leave immediately. 

Unfriendly (result 5–10): “I’ve got schedules to keep. A diversion into the deep jungle could get me killed, but will defi nitely cost me. Give me 6,000 gold and I’ll consider it.” Chinxero won’t budge below the 6,000 gp amount. 

Indifferent (result 11–15): “For enough money, I’ll go anywhere. Give me 4,000 gold, and we’re on our way.” Chinxero won’t budge below the 4,000 gp amount. 

Friendly (result 16–20): “This might be a good excuse to try to extend my trade farther south.” Chinxero agrees to make the trip for an extra 2,000 gp. 

Helpful (result 21 or more): “I’ve been wondering what the jungles hide!” Chinxero agrees to work for just the payment promised by the letter of passage.

## Challenge

Once passage is negotiated, Chinxero can be ready to head upriver in 12 hours. This delay gives the characters more time to roam Stormreach, should they so desire.

## Rewards

If the PCs successfully negotiate passage on the Marlow, award them experience equivalent to defeating a CR 6 monster (2300 XP)
