---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 1 - Lady in Distress
up:
  - 1 - Lady in Distress
next:
  - 1.2 - Time is of the Essence
sibling:
  - 1.2 - Time is of the Essence
RWtopicId: Topic_1756
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[1 - Lady in Distress]] | --- | [[1.2 - Time is of the Essence]] | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>1.1 - Employment Opportunity</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Encounter

**Setting**: Indoors

**Encounter Type**: Combat

While the adventurers are resting between missions, in their favorite inn or tavern or in whatever place they use as a headquarters when they stay in Sharn, a message arrives.

## Setup

The rain has returned after a few welcome days of sun, and now the steady beat of water falling on the roof and nearby suspended walkways fills the air with constant noise. A side door opens, and one of Sharn’s gargoyle messengers enters the room. Rain runs in rivulets down the creature’s stony hide, reminiscent of the way it cascades down the stone towers of the city. A House Vadalis signet hangs from the harness around the gargoyle’s chest.

The gargoyle asks for the player characters by name. When they identify themselves (or are otherwise pointed out), the messenger approaches.

“The Lady has need of you,” the gargoyle says in a raspy voice that sounds like stones being scraped together. He reaches into the pouch slung over his shoulder and drops a sealed envelope onto the table. With a nod, the gargoyle turns and disappears back into the rain-filled city.

The envelope, made of high-quality paper, features a wax seal with the House Cannith signet pressed into it. It contains a brief letter from Lady Elaydren d’Cannith:

Friends, 

 

Another opportunity to earn gold and perform a service for House Cannith presents itself. Please meet me at my town house at the sound of the second evening chime. Come to the Parlan Tower in Middle Central, Town House 19. 

 

Lady E.

## Participants

After the PCs make their way to Parlan Tower in Middle Central, they can easily locate Town House 19.

Something looks wrong as you approach Lady Elaydren’s town house. The open door, the scattered papers, and the smashed windows indicate that something violent occurred recently. A shadow moves in the doorway, and you hear a woman scream somewhere inside.

By the time the adventurers respond to Lady Elaydren’s summons, Garrow and his task force have already come and gone, taking the two schemas, the creation pattern, and Kedran’s notes with them. The priest of Vol left three Karrnathi zombies to finish off Elaydren, to further delay anyone seeking to aid her, and perhaps to sow confusion by making it look like Karrnath has attacked House Cannith. 

 

The door to the town house opens onto a 30-footby- 30-foot foyer. House Cannith guards lie scattered around the room, cut down by weapons and magic. The three Karrnathi zombies surround a wounded and nearly exhausted Elaydren. Lady Elaydren has used all her spells and other resources, and tries to hold off the zombies with her dagger.

## Challenge

Zombie Tactics: Unless otherwise distracted, the Karrnathi zombies direct all their attacks at Elaydren until she falls. If another character attacks the zombies, two of them turn to face the new challenger while the third continues to attack Elaydren unless it too is engaged.

## Rewards

The Karrnathi zombies were ordered to make sure that Lady Elaydren and any of her minions are destroyed. The zombies fight with a malevolent intelligence and work together to defeat their enemies. If the PCs try to reason or otherwise talk to the zombies, the zombies display a disdain for nonwarriors and for those not born of Karrnath. They won’t reveal whom they work for, but often shout Karrnathi war slogans as they battle: “For Karrn and Karrnath!” “By the Blood-Sword’s crimson blade!” and “You are no match for the blood and soil of Karrnath!” for example. 

 

When the PCs defeat the zombies, they can talk to Lady Elaydren.
