---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 1 - Lady in Distress
up:
  - 1 - Lady in Distress
prev:
  - 1.1 - Employment Opportunity
RWtopicId: Topic_1757
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[1 - Lady in Distress]] | [[1.1 - Employment Opportunity]] | --- | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>1.2 - Time is of the Essence</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Exposition

**Setting**: Indoors

**Encounter Type**: Social

Provided the adventurers defeat the Karrnathi zombies before Elaydren dies, they can speak to their patron.

## Setup

“Once again I am in your debt,” Lady Elaydren says as she tries to compose herself after the brutal ordeal. “The zombies were only part of the larger force that attacked my guards and household staff. There were armored warriors wearing the symbol of the Emerald Claw, and a warforged fighter with a wickedly curved scimitar. The worst of these, however, was their leader. He appeared first as a smiling merchant, rotund and jolly, who used so innocent a form to gain entry to my town house. Then his form seemed to melt and flow, and he appeared as a tall, emaciated man with white skin, red eyes, and sharp fangs.”

Elaydren pauses to calm herself, accepting any healing or other aid the PCs might offer. Then she continues:

“They killed my guards, my servants . . . they smashed my pre-Galifar memory urn . . . and they took the schemas,” Elaydren recounts with a heavy heart. “By the Great Forge, the Emerald Claw has the schemas and the creation pattern!” She pauses again, and a new resolve sparkles in her sapphire eyes. “There is still time to retrieve the schemas and keep the Order of the Emerald Claw from gaining whatever power the completed creation pattern may possess. Time is of the essence, and there isn’t a moment to waste. Will you undertake this mission for me?”

## Background

Lady Elaydren doesn’t understand the dark game of danger and deceit that she has been forced to play. Yesterday, Baron Merrix summoned her and entrusted the two schemas, the creation pattern, and some recently uncovered notes attributed to their ancestor, Kedran, into her care. Merrix explained that they would be safer with her than with him, and he would call for their return at a later date.

 

Once Elaydren left with the items, Merrix had word concerning this development leaked to the Order of the Emerald Claw through operatives not easily traced back to [[House Cannith]]. For Merrix to get to actually see the result of completing the creation pattern, all the various schemas had to come together. By sacrificing his hard-won schemas and the notes that lead to the location of the final schema, Merrix believes that the ancient sentience will be allowed to emerge. Once emerged, it would find its way back to him, either through the actions of Elaydren’s hirelings or through the actions of other agents not yet in play.

 

Anyway, Elaydren examined Kedran’s notes and realized that she had not only two schemas and the creation pattern, but also the key to finding the final schema. Knowing how hard others were looking for these objects, a nervous Elaydren doubled her personal guard and sent for the adventurers who have been so helpful and resourceful thus far. Unfortunately, the adventurers arrive too late to stop [[Garrow]] and his task force from stealing the items entrusted to Elaydren, but they have an opportunity to save their patron from a horrible death at the hands of Karrnathi undead.

## Additional Details

Lady Elaydren d’Cannith works hard to convince the adventurers to once again take up her cause. This time, in addition to monetary gain and the continued support of House Cannith, she appeals to them to protect the Five Nations from the evil machinations of the Order of the Emerald Claw. Work the answers to these questions into the adventurers’ conversation with Lady Elaydren.

Why Should We Help You? “For taking on this mission, I will pay you 5,000 gold pieces each—half now, the rest when you return with the items. The schemas and the creation pattern belong to House Cannith, but more importantly, we must not allow the Order of the Emerald Claw to use the completed pattern. I haven’t quite determined what the pattern can be used to create, but the reputed power it possesses cannot be allowed to fall into the grasp of the Emerald Claw. Neither the Five Nations nor the dragonmarked houses will be safe should the order attain a powerful weapon. They have three of the four schemas. They can’t be allowed to retrieve the fourth.”

Why Us and Not House Cannith Operatives? “I was given the schemas and the creation pattern to hold and keep safe, and I have failed. I must recover the items through the efforts of my own resources, or my standing in the house will be in jeopardy. You have served me well in the past, and I turn to you again in this hour of need.”

How Can We Find the Schemas? “Among the items stolen from me were recently uncovered notes made by my ancestor, Kedran d’Cannith. It was in his ancient forge far below Sharn that the first schema was discovered. His notes hint at the location of the fourth schema. I can provide you with those hints, and you can beat the Emerald Claw to the location.” Where Do You Think the Fourth Schema Is? “The fourth schema can be found in Xen’drik, in ancient ruins once populated by giants and their elf slaves. Kedran’s notes clearly identify the place, and I can replicate the clues that were among his writings.”

What’s Next? “Prepare yourselves for a journey to the mysterious continent of Xen’drik. Here is a letter of credit for 5,000 gold pieces that you should use to outfi t yourselves and procure potions and scrolls for the expedition. Return here in two hours, and I will have your advance payment ready. I will also make arrangements for your travel.”

When the adventurers have asked all the questions they can think of, go on to 'From Here to There'.
