---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 2 - From Here to There
up:
  - 2 - From Here to There
next:
  - 2.2 - The Sea Dart
sibling:
  - 2.2 - The Sea Dart
RWtopicId: Topic_1765
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[2 - From Here to There]] | --- | [[2.2 - The Sea Dart]] | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>2.1 - Last Words from Elaydren</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Transition

**Setting**: Indoors

**Encounter Type**: Social

When the adventurers return to Lady Elaydren’s town house, they see that she has called for laborers to clean up the mess. Attentive PCs can notice (DC 15 Wisdom (Perception)) that these are common laborers, not affiliated with House Cannith or any of the other dragonmarked houses. Elaydren wants to keep the news of recent events from reaching Baron Merrix for as long as possible, unaware that the Baron has been watching events unfold at the town house all day through the use of magical means. 

 

Elaydren seems relieved to see the adventurers, since many of her hopes for advancing in her house rest with them. She welcomes them and lays out the last details before the adventurers can depart.

## Setup

“I have secured you passage on a new form of transportation recently developed by House Cannith,” Lady Elaydren says. “It is called an undersea ship, for it travels secretly beneath the waves. Three such vehicles have been constructed. We built them for various intelligence agencies, but only one such group has had the vision to purchase one of the ships now that the Last War has ended. The other two remain in Cannith hands. Take this letter of passage to Byam, in the Grayflood district. He can be found in the vicinity of the Stone Docks. He will make sure you get safely to Stormreach and back again.”

Elaydren moves on to discussing how to fi nd the Emerald Claw task force.

“The undersea ship will take you to Stormreach, the trading town located on the northern coast of Xen’drik. You might be able to pick up the Emerald Claw task force’s trail in or around Stormreach, but if that doesn’t seem to be working, head directly for the ruins. Kedran’s notes place the ancient site about four hundred miles up the Rachi River. Here is the clue from Kedran’s notes to finding the site once you reach that stretch of the river: At the turn in the Rachi River, where the land rises and the hands of stone reach for the sky, look toward the giant’s left hand for guidance to the schema’s resting place.”

Finally, Elaydren gives each of the adventurers a small pouch of gems worth 2,500 gold pieces.

“Collect the four schemas and the creation pattern, return them to me, and an equal amount will be yours on your return. Good luck, and may the fortunes of the Houses and the Nations smile upon you.”
