---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 2 - From Here to There
up:
  - 2 - From Here to There
prev:
  - 2.2 - The Sea Dart
next:
  - 2.4 - Island Encounter
sibling:
  - 2.4 - Island Encounter
RWtopicId: Topic_1767
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[2 - From Here to There]] | [[2.2 - The Sea Dart]] | [[2.4 - Island Encounter]] | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>2.3 - Danger at Sea</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Transition

**Setting**: Underwater

This deadly encounter pits the Sea Dart and its passengers against a Huge dire shark as the undersea ship travels through the waters beneath Shargon’s Teeth.

## Setup

Gliding along beneath the waves can be either extremely boring or extremely interesting, depending on the terrain and undersea life. On the second day of the trip, Captain Byam calls the PCs to the observation blister to see an interesting sight.

**Light**: Light spells at 20-foot intervals inside the undersea ship; phosphorescent sea life outside provides twilightlike lighting, or the ship’s exterior light spells can be illuminated.

**Sound**: Creaks and moans of a vessel under pressure; bubbling, faint intermittent whale calls and the sounds of other undersea life (automatic).

Beyond the clear dome of the observation blister, a breathtaking vista reveals itself in startling hues of phosphorescent color. Thousands of glowing fish, some in schools, some alone, flit through the dark water. Great columns of stone, painted in luminescent yellows and greens, punch up from the darkness below and extend toward the surface, slowly narrowing as they reach upward. Some of the columns are only tens of feet across, but those farther away in the hazing distance could be far, far broader, perhaps supporting small islets of rock on the surface. Captain Byam says, “The Teeth, as seen from a different perspective. Beautiful, don’t you think?”

## Participants

A dire shark streaks through the water and attacks the Sea Dart at the behest of its sahuagin keeper. If the PCs notice the approaching creature, they can prepare for the jarring impact. Otherwise, they realize the danger when the dire shark crashes into the undersea ship. 

 

Call for Perception checks by all the characters in the observation blister. On a result of 12 or higher, characters see something large streaking through the water toward the vessel.

If they spot the shape: Anenormous dark shape moves through the water toward you. It comes closer, and you see a streamlined body with a triangular fin atop its back, a toothy maw set well under its long snout, and a tail shaped like a crescent moon.

A moment later, the dire shark smashes into the Sea Dart, damaging the ring that binds the water elemental to the vessel.

The Sea Dart rocks violently as though something large and powerful has crashed into it, or perhaps the vessel has hit one of the stone columns that rise like rocky trees through the dark water all around you. From somewhere, you hear the sound of dripping water as the gnome crew members begin to curse and shout.

## Challenge

Have each of the characters and the crew members make Dexterity checks to keep their footing and better weather being tossed violently around the inside of the ship when the dire shark impacts the Sea Dart. Anyone who noticed its approach must make a DC 10 Dexterity check; those who were caught by surprise must make a DC 15 Dexterity check. Those who succeed take 1d6 points of damage; those who fail take 2d6 points of damage.

### Underwater Combat

When adventurers pursue [[Sahuagin|sahuagin]] back to their undersea homes, fight off sharks in an ancient shipwreck, or find themselves in a flooded dungeon room, they must fight in a challenging environment. Underwater the following rules apply. 

 

When making a melee weapon attack, a creature that doesn't have a swimming speed (either natural or granted by magic) has disadvantage on the attack roll unless the weapon is a dagger, [[Campaigns/5etools Compendium/items/javelin|javelin]], shortsword, [[Campaigns/5etools Compendium/items/spear|spear]], or [[Campaigns/5etools Compendium/items/trident|trident]]. 

 

A ranged weapon attack automatically misses a target beyond the weapon's normal [[Range|range]]. Even against a target within normal range, the attack roll has disadvantage unless the weapon is a crossbow, a [[Campaigns/5etools Compendium/items/net|net]], or a weapon that is [[Thrown|thrown]] like a [[Campaigns/5etools Compendium/items/javelin|javelin]] (including a [[Campaigns/5etools Compendium/items/spear|spear]], [[Campaigns/5etools Compendium/items/trident|trident]], or [[Campaigns/5etools Compendium/items/dart|dart]]). 

 

Creatures and objects that are fully immersed in water have [[resistance|Resistance]] to fire damage.

## Rise! Rise!

The dire shark’s powerful crash into the Sea Dart has damaged the undersea ship. The adventurers can hear the tension in the otherwise professional calls and shouted orders of the crew.

“All right, crew,” Byam shouts above the increasingly louder sound of dripping water, “we’re going to have to take a swim and cut the Sea Dart free.” He turns to the adventurers. “Any help you can provide will be much appreciated.”

As the Sea Dart rises toward the surface, it becomes entangled in sahuagin traps. The great nets stretched between the stone columns effectively catch the Sea Dart and hold it tight. The undersea ship won’t be able to go anywhere until the nets are removed.

“Once we reach the surface,” Byam explains, “the crew and I can examine the damage and make repairs. Shouldn’t delay us more than a couple of hours, Wise Aureon willing.”

Captain Byam must get his undersea ship to the surface, where his crew can make repairs to the elemental binding ring that surrounds the ship and contains the water elemental that powers it. As the vessel rises through the water, Byam adjusts the view in the observation blister so that the crew can keep an eye on the dire shark. It seems to follow them for a while; then it disappears into the dark water beyond the range of the Sea Dart’s exterior light spells.

“Captain!” one gnome crew member calls. “The binding ring has been damaged!” “Blast that overgrown sardine’s misshapen fin!” Byam shouts, anger and tension fighting for dominance in his tone. “Get us to the surface before the elemental gets free and we’re stuck in these cursed waters! Rise, rise!”

## A Swim in the Dark

Byam directs the undersea excursion from the observation blister, where he can use the magic of that chamber to serve as the eyes for his crew. He orders two crew members to remain in the ship to provide assistance and offer help when the others exit and enter the vessel. Four crew members quaff potions of water breathing and disembark to cut the Sea Dart free of the nets. The PCs can volunteer to help with this chore, or they can serve as defenders when the dire shark once again appears and attacks.

 

Once the PCs start making preparations to depart the ship, or after the four crew members enter the water, whichever comes fi rst, start keeping track of rounds.

### Exiting the Vessel

The process of grabbing water crossbows, using potions of water breathing (good for 10 hours each and suffi cient to keep the dangers of drowning and high pressure at bay), and exiting the airlock requires 3 full rounds. Helpful crew members attach a tether to each character (50 feet long) unless a given character refuses the aid. (Exiting crew members never refuse tethers.) 

 

There are eight water crossbows in the ship’s armory, six Small (1d6/19–20/×2) and two Medium (1d8/19–20/ ×2). These weapons have been designed to function underwater. The four gnome crew members each take a Small water crossbow and 10 bolts with them when they exit the ship. The PCs have the option of using any of the remaining weapons if they so choose.

### Cutting the Net

Two move actions are required for a character to reach and properly position himself at each section of the net that Byam directed the crew members to cut. The crew members work in pairs to cut the net. Each section of the net that must be cut has AC 12 and 8 hit points. All four sections must be cut for the Sea Dart to be freed. 

 

The PCs can decide to help cut the ship free if they so desire.

### The Dire Shark

The dire shark glides silently out of the darkness beyond the light spells 2 rounds after the fi rst passengers or crew members enter the water. It starts out by trying to grab one of the crew members or a PC in its powerful jaws so that it can swallow him or her whole. Despite the fearful appearance of the dire shark, the well-trained crew members stay at their posts and continue to try to free the Sea Dart. The PCs can either work to keep the shark at bay or help to cut the net, or both. The dire shark can’t be easily driven away due to the telepathic instructions it receives from its sahuagin keeper; it stays and fi ghts until it is reduced to 30 hit points or less. Thereafter, it attempts to escape with all possible haste. 

 

During the battle with the dire shark, have each PC make a single DC 25 Spot check. Anyone who succeeds notices a humanoid-shaped creature swimming just at the edge of the glow of the ship’s light spells. The character(s) only get a momentary glimpse before the creature slips into the deeper darkness. This is a sahuagin. If a character notices the creature and informs Captain Byam, the crusty gnome curses and says, “Well, making repairs will be a tad more interesting.” 

### Getting Back on board the Sea Dart

Characters can enter the airlock in pairs with a full-round action. It takes another full round for the airlock to cycle before another pair can enter.

### Ending the Encounter

This encounter ends when the nets holding the Sea Dart are cut free. Then the damaged vessel can continue toward the surface, where the crew members can make repairs.
