---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 2 - From Here to There
up:
  - 2 - From Here to There
prev:
  - 2.3 - Danger at Sea
next:
  - 2.5 - Stormreach
sibling:
  - 2.5 - Stormreach
RWtopicId: Topic_1768
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[2 - From Here to There]] | [[2.3 - Danger at Sea]] | [[2.5 - Stormreach]] | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>2.4 - Island Encounter</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Encounter

**Setting**: Nautical

**Encounter Type**: Combat

After escaping the nets, the Sea Dart rises to the surface and comes to rest beside one of the craggy islands formed by the stone columns jutting from beneath the waves. While Byam and his crew work to repair the damaged binding ring, the sahuagin shark keeper and his allies attack. The PCs must protect the gnomes until the repairs can be completed.

The Sea Dart breaks the surface and gently comes to rest beside a more or less flat-topped stone outcropping. Other such outcroppings jut from the water, though most of the nearest ones are jagged or domed. “This is as good a place as any,” Byam declares. “Let’s disembark and make repairs.”

## Setup

Byam and his crew need 2 hours to complete repairs. The small sahuagin force sees them as intruders and wants to capture the crew and the ship for their tribal leader. The PCs might be able to negotiate safe passage through the region with the sahuagin shark keeper, provided they talk before making any hostile actions and make a DC 25 Diplomacy check, accompanied by some sort of treasure (the sahuagin shark keeper appreciates magic items, especially weapons, as well as gold, and requires a combination of the two totaling 1,000 gp). The shark keeper can’t be reasoned with if the adventurers managed to kill the dire shark.

 

If diplomacy fails, the adventurers must fi ght the sahuagin raiding party.

## Participants

After Byam and his crew complete repairs, and once the PCs have dealt with the sahuagin raiders, the Sea Dart continues its trip toward Xen’drik without further incident. Depending on how the encounters played out, the adventurers should be less than half a day behind schedule.
