---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 4.2 - Dark Level
up:
  - 4.2 - Dark Level
prev:
  - 4.2.1 - Landing (9)
next:
  - 4.2.4 - Outflow Portal (12)
sibling:
  - 4.2.4 - Outflow Portal (12)
RWtopicId: Topic_1648
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[4.2 - Dark Level]] | [[4.2.1 - Landing (9)]] | [[4.2.4 - Outflow Portal (12)]] | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>4.2.2 - Drowned Dark Level (10)</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Encounter

**Setting**: Ruin

**Encounter Type**: Combat

Once the doors to this area open, the level of water drops to a point where it covers the fl oor up to a depth of 2 feet.

**Light**: None. This level is dark and bleak

**Sound**: The sound of flowing and dripping water

## Setup

If the characters somehow manage to enter this area without opening the doors in area 9, the water level rises to a depth of 10 feet instead of 2 feet.

When the adventurers pass through the doors read:

Water covers the expanse of this vast enclosed level. A continual stream of water pours out the doors and down the stairs behind you, but ahead there is only darkness.

## Participants

An undead creature that lived in the Age of Giants haunts this dark, water-fi lled level. Once an elf slave, the creature died in an accident involving the portals that tap the elemental waters of the plane of Lamannia (see areas 11 and 12). Now it roams this dark level, drawn to the fi rst living, intelligent creatures to enter the place in thousands of years.

## Challenge

The drowned tries to stay out of the light of any creatures that enter, slip behind them, and then block the exit when they try to leave. It trusts to its drowning aura to aid it in defeating any living creatures. When the drowned draws close, read:

Suddenly the air becomes thick and wet, and it becomes harder and harder to breathe. It feels as though you’ve been plunged beneath the murky water, even though it barely reaches your knees.

If the PCs spot the undead elf, read:

The animated corpse of an elf emerges from the dark, drenched and dripping, glaring at you with malevolent eyes.

## Rewards

The drowned wears a golden collar that once gave it great status among the elf slaves. Now meaningless other than its worth as an ancient golden trinket, it has a value of 500 gp.
