---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 4.2 - Dark Level
up:
  - 4.2 - Dark Level
prev:
  - 4.2.4 - Outflow Portal (12)
next:
  - 4.2.3 - Inflow Portal (11)
sibling:
  - 4.2.3 - Inflow Portal (11)
RWtopicId: Topic_1650
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[4.2 - Dark Level]] | [[4.2.4 - Outflow Portal (12)]] | [[4.2.3 - Inflow Portal (11)]] | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>4.2.5 - Dark Ziggurat (13)</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Encounter

**Setting**: Indoors

**Encounter Type**: Exploration

A three-stepped ziggurat rises out of the water across from the doors to this level. If the PCs have a light source and approach this area, read:

## Setup

A three-stepped ziggurat rises out of the water across from the doors to this level. If the PCs have a light source and approach this area, read:

A stone ziggurat set in the floor rises toward the dark ceiling overhead in three steps. The ziggurat has three steps, each rising 10 feet higher than the previous level. Convoluted designs in carved relief cover every foot of the structure, except for the uppermost step. There, the strange designs appear on three on the four sides, each showing a single glyph. The fourth side is completely devoid of all markings.

## Challenge

The designs on the ziggurat prove resistant to interpretation. Not only do they represent a long-dead language, they are entirely encrypted. If someone casts comprehend languages, the translated glyphs read as gibberish. A successful DC 10 Intelligence (arcana) check suggests the possibility of magical encryptions that belie standard translation procedures. A special cryptographic key must be found to translate the glyphs. This device, called the codebreaker, can be found in area 24.

## Additional Details

Without the codebreaker, the glyphs cannot be read. With the codebreaker in hand, the designs on the lower two levels of the ziggurat can be deciphered. They describe a myth of the creation of a place called Xulenzen and a parable of a carver and a creek-lizard, both mostly inscrutable due to cultural differences. The glyphs that decorate three of the four sides of the uppermost step describe three coordinates for the Throne Gate. These are three of the six needed to use the Throne Gate to access the resting place of the fourth schema. 

 

The glyphs read as: The Scorpion’s Tail, the River’s End, and Garyx’s Eye. A successful DC 25 Intelligence (arcana) check allows a character to recognize these as versions of the names of stars in the sky.
