---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 4.2 - Dark Level
up:
  - 4.2 - Dark Level
next:
  - 4.2.2 - Drowned Dark Level (10)
sibling:
  - 4.2.2 - Drowned Dark Level (10)
RWtopicId: Topic_1647
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[4.2 - Dark Level]] | --- | [[4.2.2 - Drowned Dark Level (10)]] | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>4.2.1 - Landing (9)</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Encounter

**Setting**: Ruin
*annotation:* Ancient ruin. This level has no windows.

**Encounter Type**: Exploration
*annotation:* Likely have to fight the [[Emerald Claw]]guards. Potentially have to deal with escaping water.

The entrance into the dark level of the ruin refuses to budge, and so Emerald Claw soldiers continue to struggle to open it even as the adventurers draw near.

**Light**: Torchlight

**Sound**: People talking

## Setup

When the adventurers begin to climb the stairs

Flickering torch light dances at the top of the stairs, and the sound of people conversing in Common drifts down from above. Several humanoid figures stand around two massive doors, tending to a mechanism and trying to pry the doors open.

## Challenge

After discovering that these doors would not budge, the Emerald Claw soldiers decided that more force might do the trick. To that end, they have assembled the mechanism now before the double doors leading to area 10. The mechanism consists of a winchlike wheel, a sturdy chain, and iron spikes embedded in the door. When the winch is turned, the chain tightens, and one of the doors is forced open. The mechanism is almost complete, requiring only the fi nal adjustments. (If a PC wants to make the check, he or she must make a DC 15 Knowledge [engineering] check or a DC 20 Intelligence check. The soldiers, familiar with the workings of the device, automatically succeed on the check.) If the winch is employed while characters attempt to break down the doors, add 15 to the Strength check result. The winch mechanism can only be employed two times before it breaks and becomes useless.

Unlike most of the giant doors in the ruin, these are still in great shape and form a watertight seal. They are 21-foot-high stone doors, each 9 feet wide; 2 feet thick; hardness 10; 360 hit points; AC 5; break DC 38. An iron bar secures the doors from inside area 10, and the doors are too large to be subject to knock spells.

The soldiers attack anyone who is not part of their task force. If the characters made noise while ascending the stairs, or if events prior to this encounter have alerted the task force to the PCs’ presence in the ruin, the soldiers here are immediately suspicious and prepare an ambush.

## Obstacles

Water fills the area beyond the door. If the doors are fi nally opened, a portion of the water that fills the dark level rushes out with exceptional force, tumbling all creatures down the stairs.

 

The stairs from the gallery level have one switchback. The force of the water tumbles all creatures and objects past the switchback and into area 5 of the gallery level, dealing 5d6 points of damage in the process (there is no chance to escape this initial flow). The flow of water continues, launching any creatures that fail to make a DC 10 Dexterity save at this juncture off the edge of the gallery level. Those who fall 50 feet to the hard ground below take 5d6 points of damage. Following the initial surge, a continual stream of water pours out of the door at a rate slow enough to allow creatures to sidestep it. A continuous waterfall appears off the back of the ruin unless the door to the dark level is sealed again, or the inflow gate in area 11 is deactivated.
