---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Aliases:
  - area 12
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 4.2 - Dark Level
up:
  - 4.2 - Dark Level
prev:
  - 4.2.2 - Drowned Dark Level (10)
next:
  - 4.2.5 - Dark Ziggurat (13)
sibling:
  - 4.2.5 - Dark Ziggurat (13)
RWtopicId: Topic_1649
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[4.2 - Dark Level]] | [[4.2.2 - Drowned Dark Level (10)]] | [[4.2.5 - Dark Ziggurat (13)]] | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>4.2.4 - Outflow Portal (12)</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Encounter

**Setting**: Ruin

**Encounter Type**: Exploration

This one-way portal to the elemental waters of Lamannia no longer functions as it was designed to do. Once, water fl owed from the infl ow portal to the outfl ow portal in a continuous tube, leaving the rest of the chamber dry. It no longer works according to design, and so the entire level has been fl ooded by the elemental waters.

Aura: Strong conjuration (teleportation) from the portal.

## Setup

This massive stone support contains a 5-foot-diameter opening in its face, which offers a view of a great watery expanse. The lowest portion of the opening is seven feet above the floor.

## Challenge

Water mephits frolic in Lamannia, around the outflow portal. They used to enjoy tasting the changes to the water as it fl owed from the Material Plane. Now that the level is no longer entirely fl ooded, the water no longer flows from Eberron, and the mephits are disturbed by the change in the familiar pattern. The mephits delight in attacking any character that comes through the portal.

## Obstacles

On this plane, the span between the two portals is 260 feet. Within the elemental waters of Lamannia, however, the distance between the corresponding portals is only 20 feet. A character can enter this portal and find himself submerged in the waters of Lamannia, facing away from the infl ow portal and separated from it by 20 feet of cold, pure water.
