---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 3 - Riding The Marlow
up:
  - 3 - Riding The Marlow
next:
  - 3.2 - The Giant Hands
sibling:
  - 3.2 - The Giant Hands
RWtopicId: Topic_1636
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[3 - Riding The Marlow]] | --- | [[3.2 - The Giant Hands]] | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>3.1 - River Encounters</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Encounter

**Setting**: Nautical

**Encounter Type**: Combat

Most of the first day on the Rachi River is spent in a cultivated region surrounding [[Stormreach]]. Small villages dot the riverside every few miles. But after the first day, [[The Marlow|the Marlow]] passes into the deep jungle, and monster encounters are possible. 

 

Use the table below to determine the chance of an encounter each day of the trip, and whether or not the encounter takes place during the daylight hours (while the boat is moving) or at night (while the boat is anchored).
<table><tbody><tr><td>
Day
</td><td>
Encounter? (roll d%)
</td><td>
Time (roll d6)
</td></tr><tr><td>
One
</td><td>
01-10
</td><td>
1-2 day, 3-6 night
</td></tr><tr><td>
Two
</td><td>
01-20
</td><td>
1-3 day, 4-6 night
</td></tr><tr><td>
Three
</td><td>
01-30
</td><td>
1-4 day, 5-6 night
</td></tr><tr><td>
Four
</td><td>
01-40
</td><td>
1-3 day, 4-6 night
</td></tr><tr><td>
Five
</td><td>
01-50
</td><td>
day
</td></tr></tbody></table>
 

If no encounter is indicated for a particular day, the journey passes without incident. Very little of the jungle can be seen from the river, and soon even the exotic locale becomes somewhat dull and monotonous. If an encounter is indicated for a particular day, roll on the table below and consult the notes that follow.
<table><tbody><tr><td>
d%
</td><td>
Monster
</td><td>
# Appearing
</td><td>
CR
</td></tr><tr><td>
01-11
</td><td>
Giant Constrictor snakes
</td><td>
3
</td><td>
6
</td></tr><tr><td>
12-17
</td><td>
Deinonychus
</td><td>
4
</td><td>
7
</td></tr><tr><td>
18-27
</td><td>
Dire Apes
</td><td>
3
</td><td>
6
</td></tr><tr><td>
28-34
</td><td>
[[Hill Giant]]
</td><td>
2
</td><td>
8
</td></tr><tr><td>
35-40
</td><td>
Green Hag (coven)
</td><td>
1
</td><td>
5
</td></tr><tr><td>
41-52
</td><td>
Lizardfolk
</td><td>
10
</td><td>
6
</td></tr><tr><td>
53-61
</td><td>
[[Shambling Mound]]
</td><td>
1
</td><td>
6
</td></tr><tr><td>
62-73
</td><td>
Skum
</td><td>
4
</td><td>
6
</td></tr><tr><td>
74-83
</td><td>
Sabre-Toothed Tiger
</td><td>
3
</td><td>
6
</td></tr><tr><td>
84-92
</td><td>
Trolls
</td><td>
2
</td><td>
7
</td></tr><tr><td>
93-100
</td><td>
[[Yuan-ti Abomination|Yuan-ti abomination]]
</td><td>
1
</td><td>
7
</td></tr></tbody></table>
 

Giant Constrictor Snakes (4): The snakes drop from the branches hanging over the river.

Deinonychus (4): These aggressive dinosaurs leap onto the deck of the riverboat when it moves near the shore of a narrow portion of the river and attack. 

Dire Apes (3): The monstrous apes swing from the trees onto the riverboat using vines. 

Giant, Hill: The hill giant attacks from the rocky cliffs along the shore of the river, hurling rocks and boulders. 

Hag, Green (coven): The green hag attempts to lure victims off the boat, preferring to attack in the night. 

Lizardfolk (8): The lizardfolk savages hurl javelins from the cover of the trees along the shore as the riverboat passes by. 

Shambling Mound: The shambling mound hides in a thick patch of vegetation near the bank of the river. It slides silently through the water to surprise the occupants of the boat and try to snag one as a snack. 

Skum (4): hp 11 each; Monster Manual page 228. This hunting party has wandered into the river from an underground waterway, intent on capturing surface dwellers to take below. They attempt to grab a crew member and then get the adventurers to battle them within the water. 

Sabre-Toothed Tigers (2): hp 45 each; Monster Manual page 281. The tigers leap across the water from a narrow part of the river as the boat passes by. 

Trolls (2): hp 63 each; Monster Manual page 247. The trolls wade out of the shallow part of the river when the boat is anchored for the night. 

Yuan-Ti Abomination: hp 67; Monster Manual page 264. The abomination encounters the boat while swimming in the river and, angered by its presence, attacks.
