---
ImportedOn: Sunday, December 5, 2021 1:10:13 PM
Tags: Category/Scene
parent:
  - 3 - Riding The Marlow
up:
  - 3 - Riding The Marlow
prev:
  - 3.1 - River Encounters
RWtopicId: Topic_1637
---

| Up | Prev | Next | Home |
|----|------|------|------|
| [[3 - Riding The Marlow]] | [[3.1 - River Encounters]] | --- | [[Eberron]] |

# <center>3.2 - The Giant Hands</center>

## Overview

**Scene Type**: Encounter

**Setting**: Outdoors

**Encounter Type**: Roleplaying

On the fifth day of travel along the river, the adventurers spot the landmark they were told to watch for.

## Setup

Just as Kedran’s notes suggested, as you reach a turn in the Rachi River, at a place where the land rises up from the vegetation-strewn banks, you see giant hands of stone reaching out of the rocky soil toward the sky. These ancient monoliths suggest that you are nearing the site of the fourth schema’s resting place. 

 

And, sure enough, on the bank of the river to the giant’s left hand, you see a small air-skiff floating about 20 feet in the air, a rope ladder hanging over the side and a line spiked into the ground.

The air-skiff belongs to the Emerald Claw task force. Garrow secured a new airship after his was destroyed in Whispers of the Vampire’s Blade, and he is overly protective of the new vessel. Therefore, once he found the location of the ruin, he hid the larger airship in the jungle and took a smaller team in aboard the airskiff, named Nellie.

 

Garrow, Scimitar, and the rest of the Emerald Claw operatives have entered the ruin, leaving just three men to guard the air-skiff. The guards are loyal to the order but know little of Garrow’s plans and purposes. They simply follow their orders. Two are in the airskiff, while the third has been exploring a short way up the river. When the guards in the air-skiff notice the approaching riverboat and the well-armed adventurers, they decide to parley instead of fi ght, hoping to delay the adventurers while the third guard gets word to Garrow and the others exploring the ruin.

## Challenge

The guards know they can’t stand against the adventurers, so they decide to try to stall them by talking to them. During the discussion, the PCs can make a DC 20 Spot check to notice the third guard as he sneaks toward the entrance to the ruin. Here are some of the questions the guards might answer.

 

​Who Are You? “We are members of the Order of the Emerald Claw. We work for the advancement of the nation of Karrnath, despite the current king’s lack of vision and ambition.” 

 

Who Is Your Leader? “The great and powerful Garrow leads us.” 

 

Is Your Leader a Vampire? (After a short pause) “Yes, a powerful vampire.” (This is a lie.) 

 

Does Garrow Have the Schemas? “He has some objects in his pack, and he guards them fiercely, but we know nothing of detail.” 

 

How Many Men Are with Garrow? “Nearly fifty, all told, including a fierce warforged warrior.” 

 

How Long Have They Been in the Ruin? “Since yesterday morning.”



## Additional Details

The characters may decide their best option is to damage the Nellie and leave Garrow stranded, then ambush their opponents when they emerge from the ruin. However, the guard trying to warn Garrow might cause the Emerald Claw minions to alter their plan, and so Muroni urges the adventurers to enter the ruin. “You must reach this Garrow before he fi nds the object he seeks,” she says, “for you must be there when the great event unfolds.” She says nothing more, but she repeats this directive frequently until the adventurers head into the ruin.
